---
title: The Fight Against Leukemia Begins
tags:
  - cancer
  - general
date: '2020-01-14T12:47:26Z'
featuredImage: './hospital.jpg'
visible: true
---

Two and a half weeks ago I found myself lying in a hospital bed after a full day
in the ER, a blood transfusion dripping into one of my IVs, listening to a
doctor tell me I have Acute Myeloid Leukemia. Just that morning I thought I was
just getting over a bad case of the flu. I mean, I'm 28 years old. I'm healthy.
I can't have cancer, can I? I really wasn't in a good state that night anyway,
but even so, the news hit me like a truck. I would be lying if I didn't say I
was scared shitless.

So how did I end up in that hospital bed? It started with a basic cold and a
little fever. For four days I felt slightly feverish but the Friday night before
Christmas things got a lot worse. I thought I had the flu and the best remedy
would be for me to spend the weekend in bed drinking water and sleeping. I
honestly didn't leave my bed until Monday night when we went to urgent care. I
was given some basic antibiotics and sent back to bed. I again assumed the best
and thought everything would just go away.

Over Christmas I would spike a fever a few times a day, I had some sort of
infection happening in the gums behind my teeth, and I would almost faint every
time I got up to get water or go to the bathroom. All of these things I
attributed to a really bad flu. But this flu had been going on now for almost a
week and a half and even with the antibiotics, it wasn't getting any better. The
final straw was when my vision started to get blurry in my left eye. At that
point, it was time to go back into the doctor.

My wife and I, still assuming this was some sort of infection/virus, headed to
an urgent care hoping to get something stronger to combat whatever was going on.
After hearing about my symptoms the doctor immediately sent us to the ER. I
guess now I know more about what constitutes an ER visit vs an urgent care
visit. They drew some blood to give us a head start at the ER and then we drove
to the one they recommended. We ended up being super lucky that they sent us to
Methodist hospital. It's pretty close to our house, in between our parents'
houses, and they also happen to specialize in oncology. At the time we weren't
thinking about any of these things.

They were waiting for me at the ER, which was great because I was barely
standing on two feet. To be honest, I was pretty out of it and loopy most of the
day. I'm surprised I remember as much as I do. A nurse led me straight to a room
and began the process of getting me checked in. A doctor to come in pretty quick
and told us that my blood counts (hemoglobin, white blood cells, platelets) were
all super low. She also threw out the word leukemia right away just so we could
have some warning of what this could be. Of course, I thought there was no way I
could have leukemia. It had to just be a bad virus. The doctor said at the least
I would be spending the weekend in the hospital to run more tests and monitor my
health. Again, I still just thought this was some bad flu. I didn't even really
know what leukemia was.

That day was filled with an MRI, CT scan, bone marrow biopsy, and more blood
draws than I could count. My arm was bruised and filled with needle holes.
Seriously, if one more person tried to draw blood that day I think I would have
punched them. Rachel tells me I started to get pretty delirious towards the end
of the day and I was feeling it. They told me I would need blood and platelet
transfusions but after all the tests I was left sitting in the ER room waiting
for a room to open in the hospital so I could be admitted.

As soon as we got upstairs my doctor came in to tell us the news. The results
from the bone marrow biopsy determined that I had Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
and we would need to begin treatment right away. I had a very vague idea of what
leukemia was but I learned a lot pretty fast. This leukemia had probably not
been in my body more than a few weeks before I was admitted to the hospital. It
being acute meant that it was a fast-moving disease and needed immediate
treatment, which is why I had been admitted to the hospital that same day. This
was all just a big shock, a huge roadblock to the life I thought I would be
living this year. I had so many plans and even just small daily routines that
had just come to an end.

The treatment as far as this first month goes is fairly straightforward. I would
be put on a chemo treatment called 7 + 3. Seven days of a constant chemo drip
and three days of a single push of a different kind of chemo. Then I would wait
for three weeks to let the chemo do its work and then let my body rebuild my
immune system a bit. I would remain in the hospital for that entire month and at
the time little else was known about the future beyond the hospital. Since then
I've learned that there will be two options after the hospital. One is a stem
cell transplant and the other would be 3-4 rounds of consolidation chemo.
Consolidation is necessary because even if we get the leukemia into remission at
the end of the month, it has such a high likelihood of returning that further
treatment is needed to bash it into the ground. The transplant could come from
another adult or umbilical cord blood. It would be a pretty sure way that the
leukemia cells wouldn't return, but there are some pretty big risks with going
that direction. There are risks with further rounds of chemo as well, so the
choices are gonna be difficult and there is no clear winner.

This month so far has been pretty good. I've handled the chemo better than
expected. The nausea was manageable and the worst I went through was just
extreme exhaustion. I consider myself very lucky in that regard. Maybe things
will just go smoothly and I'll beat the shit out of this cancer. On my best
days, it's easy to believe this narrative. Some days though I allow my mind to
wander into a pit of despair and think that I'll never make it out of this
simply because this crazy rare bad news has already happened to me. I've already
rolled the 10,000 sided die and rolled a 1, so why would there be any reason to
get out of it. A DND character doesn't get to get out of it, why should I.
(Although if I was a halfling I could totally reroll the 1.) Thankfully with all
the support from friends and family I've received, I don't often have these
thoughts. The treatments are working so far and I'm young. Did you know the
average age for adult AML is 68? Not saying that age is everything but it
definitely gives me a good shot at handling the therapies.

I had a bone marrow biopsy this week to make sure the chemo had fully wiped out
the leukemia cells and it had. That was a reason to celebrate. Barring something
really weird my bone marrow cells should be starting to regrow and bring my
immune system back into action if only a little bit.

We've learned that my immune system won't be back to normal for maybe a year.
Which means I won't be able to attend crowded events or even busy restaurants.
I'll have to wait quite a while before I eat sushi even if everything goes well.
And there will be many hard decisions in the future. For now, we wait for counts
to come up so I can get out of the hospital. To be able to relax at home will be
a huge comfort. I can't wait for that day.

For now, I find myself spending a lot of time sitting in bed or the chair and
walking to try to keep my muscles working. I'm listening to books on tape and
writing this blog post. I've seen so many good friends and family members who
have come to visit me, which makes the time go fast. I appreciate all the
support we've been given so far and all the support I'm sure we will need in the
months to come. I will continue to write my story here even if no one reads it.
If you've made it this far, congrats! Tweet at me if you have any questions or
just want to reach out for any reason.

Thanks for reading. Matt
