---
title: How to find a Database in 2021
tags:
  - dev
  - cloud
date: '2021-01-14T18:55:33Z'
featuredImage: '../images/elcarito-MHNjEBeLTgw-unsplash.jpg'
visible: true
---

I haven’t been around as long as some, but I’ve been around web development to
remember the days where everyone had a cpanel and managed their own personal
site on super cheap shared hosting. The days of clicking a few buttons and
spinning up a new mysql database, maybe your hosting company even gave you ssh
access to your shared environment and allowed you to create some of your own
resources. But we for sure didn’t have cloud infrastructure to manage these
things or keep them in separate environments from each other, on separate apps
with separate security keys and service accounts. It definitely wasn’t the best
thing but most of the time we would host many websites, usually php
applications, and many databases all on the same linux box. We had our share of
security scares but honestly it was just a simpler time for working on the bare
bones infrastructure. I even spent some time at a company where our entire stack
was in a closet I could see from my desk. Barracuda load balancers and nightly
tape backups our CTO would literally just take home to his house. I’m not saying
those were better days, not at all, just different.

Now we have access to 3 major cloud providers (Google, AWS, and Azure) who
pretty much offer the same set of competing services. Not to mention all the
independent services that live on top of this infrastructure like Netlify and
the literally countless others. And these are really great for almost everything
we do but it’s interesting how some things have become slightly more difficult
or expensive for demo and dev work.

For example, the other day I was creating a Next.js app and wanted to try out
Prisma for connecting to a database and having a nice way to define schema,
handle migrations, and work with auth. For this I needed an external database.
Mongo and Firebase have always been really nice dev resources for me when
testing out app ideas, but again I really wanted to try out this Prisma thing
which required a relational db. In the old days I would have just spun up a db
on my shared hosting service and connected to it but I don’t have any shared
hosting anymore with how easy and free things like Netlify and Vercel are. I
really just wanted somewhere where I could spin up a hosted database for very
cheap or free. I turned to our old friend Heroku and spun up a postgres database
there on the free tier. This seemed like exactly what I needed. Free and easy to
set up. But with the way Next.js connects to the database with serverless
functions, I was running into the max-connection limit heroic puts on free
databases just when testing myself. I was hoping to at least be able to test
this with a few other people and I knew this couldn’t be a viable option. I
didn’t want to create many rows in the database and didn’t need much storage but
I definitely needed the concurrent connections for the functions.

I ended up spending about 4 hours researching across AWS and GCP for managed
database and compute pricing. I tried looking for databases that could spin down
to 0 when not in use to save money, cheap small databases, and cheap hosting
where I could add my own container-based database. Everything seemed to be about
$15/mo. which was just too much for this little hobby project I wanted to try
out. Why aren’t there any services where I can try out a database with a little
more heft for free? Is it really that expensive to host a database for testing
purposes?

Alright, so I’ve ranted enough. If you’re still reading I hope you found this at
least a semi-fun story to read through. And you’re probably curious, what did I
end up choosing? I eventually landed on a Google Compute Engine free tier
f1-tiny box with a postgres VM installed for about $4/mo. It isn’t free but it
works and I’m not running into the connection error anymore. By the way, I did
also try mysql on Heroku thinking I could avoid the connection issue but ran
into the same limitation. Maybe Heroku dbs don’t release connections very fast?
Who knows. I also set up an AWS RDS serverless db that can spin down to 0 when
not in use. I plan on trying that out for a little bit in production to compare
costs. It’s expensive if it’s used all the time but “should” be cheap if it’s
off a lot.

Thanks for reading. Be peaceful to one another.
